.\" Copyright (C) 2008  Alexey Gladkov <legion@altlinux.org>
.\"
.\" Additional documentation for the libshell.
.\"
.\" This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.
.TH "LIBSHELL" "3" "November 2008" "libshell" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
libshell \- the library of shell functions
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
The
.B libshell
library is a set of the most commonly-used shell functions.
All functions use minimum of external utilities and written for POSIX-shell.
.
.
.SH STRUCTURE
.
Library has modular structure. Each module used for own special purpose.
Some modules use the functionality of each other and load the necessary dependence.
.TP
.BR shell-getopt
Shell implementation of getopt(1) utility and getopt family;
.TP
.BR shell-config
Functions to work (read, change and remove variables) with a shell-like config files;
.TP
.BR shell-ini-config
Functions to work with a ini-like config files;
.TP
.BR shell-signal
Functions to change the action taken by a process on receipt of a specific signal;
.TP
.BR shell-args
Functions to check argument type, display version and program usage;
.TP
.BR shell-ip-address
Functions to validate the IP address;
.TP
.BR shell-mail-address
Functions to validate the domain and email address;
.TP
.BR shell-quote
Functions to quote variables;
.TP
.BR shell-unittest
Unit testing framework for shell (xUnit compatible);
.TP
.BR shell-version
Module contain libshell ABI version.
.BR
.
.
.
.SH USING MODULES
All
.B libshell
modules
.I MUST
be kept in the PATH and could be not executable. It really helps to include
these modules in the shell-program:
.RS
.IP
.EX
\&#!/bin/sh
\&. shell-error
\&. shell-getopt
\&
\&# something useful ...
.EE
.RE
.PP
The
.B bash-completion
will not find these modules in the PATH, if they are not executable.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page written by
.MT legion@altlinux.org
Alexey Gladkov
.ME .
.PP
Authors and contributors of the programs included in the
.B libshell
package are listed in the COPYING file.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.na
.nh
.tr -\(hy
.BR sh (1),
.BR bash (1),
.BR dash (1).
