.\" Copyright (C) 2008  Alexey Gladkov <legion@altlinux.org>
.\"
.\" Additional documentation for the libshell.
.\"
.\" This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
.
.TH "SHELL-ERROR" "3" "November 2008" "libshell" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
message, fatal, verbose \- functions to display error and verbose messages
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B . shell-error
.sp
.BI "PROG=" "${0##*/}"
.sp
.BI "message " TEXT
.sp
.BI "fatal " TEXT
.sp
.BI "verbose= quiet="
.sp
.BI "verbose " TEXT
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR message ()
function show
.B TEXT
message to the stderr.
.PP
Function
.BR fatal ()
is equivalent to the function message(), except that
the script will be completed after displaying a message.
.PP
.BR verbose ()
will show message if
.B $verbose
is set and 
.B $quiet
unset.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page written by
.MT legion@altlinux.org
Alexey Gladkov
.ME .
.PP
Authors and contributors of the programs included in the
.B libshell
package are listed in the COPYING file.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.na
.nh
.tr -\(hy
.BR libshell (3).
